We make decisions all the time—
and guess what?
Most of them are tied to where something happens.
Some choices are simple and short-lived, like deciding,
“Where should I grab lunch today?”
Sure, it seems trivial—
unless you bump into your all-time
favorite actor during your meal.
In that case, your decision about lunch could
become a story you tell for the rest of your life!
Other decisions, like figuring out
“What’s the most energy-efficient route from home to campus?”
might have have broader implications.
They might reduce your carbon footprint,
save you money, or even inspire others to
make more environmentally conscious choices.
Let’s dive into the world of spatial thinking and reasoning
to level up your decision-making skills.
Since we’re already making
location-based decisions daily,
why not learn how to make them more
efficient, informed, and dare we say...
fun?
So What is spatial thinking anyway?
Spatial thinking helps us see and
understand the world in ways that aren’t always obvious.
It is “a collection of cognitive skills”
that enable us to: understand space—
as in how objects relate to each other
in the physical world, express relationships—
like recognizing how a river winds through a landscape,
and reason spatially—which is
making sense of patterns, distributions,
and connections in space.
Remember those shape-sorting toys with
blocks and matching holes?
That was your first lesson in dimensions,
continuity, proximity, and separation.
Fast forward to today,
and those same spatial thinking skills are
at work when you plan a hiking route through
winding trails, or evaluate the layout
of your neighborhood.
Maps are like cheat sheets for spatial reasoning.
They take abstract ideas—
like road density or population clusters—
and turn them into something we can see,
analyze, and understand at a glance.
By using maps, we can:
identify patterns—asking why some areas
have dense networks while others are more remote,
understand relationships—
such as how road densities affect traffic,
pollution, or access to services,
and communicate effectively—
as a map can explain complex ideas
with no lengthy paragraphs required.
Whether it’s urban planning, environmental
conservation, or figuring out where to park,
spatial reasoning helps us weigh options
and make choices that matter.
And here’s the fun part:
learning to think spatially is like
adding a turbo boost to your decision-making skills.
So, are you ready to think spatially?
Let’s unlock your inner map-maker
and problem-solver, because the world
is full of patterns waiting to be discovered.